# Hosting personal website on GCP f1-micro

Google Could Platform announced their free tier plan a while ago and since then I have been very curious about what it would take to publish and host my personal website on their f1-micro Virtual Private Server. I finally got around to it, mainly because my hosting plan with Namecheap.com is up for renewal and was not keen on paying $35 to renew. Yes, I am cheap like that! One of the reasons why I am not loving Namecheap.com is because they don’t use letsencrypt.org which is an awesome free SSL certificate service that you can easily configure on your VPS. With Namecheap.com you instead have to buy your SSLs and configure them in your cPanel. Here is are the steps I followed.
1.	I created a VPS on GCP and made sure to use the f1-micro instance on one of the free tier eligible regions. I tagged it with http-server and https-sever tags. Apparently, these are firewall rules that should already be configured on your GPC VPS Network Rules. Just to be safe I double checked in indeed they are already there. http-server opens port 80 to any IP address (0.0.0.0/0). Likewise https-server opens port 443. While there I also added a second rule to open port 3000 just in case I needed to test.
2.	While on GCP I configured the IP address as static on the VPS Network -> External IP Addresses. 
3.	I configured my .ssh keys then used Putty to ninja into the vps. I tried the browser ssh service that GCP has but I am used to Putty. 
4.	I installed nginx took some steps to harden it then configured two server blocks in addition to the default. One server block is for dev and the other for production. 
5.	Then I went over to namecheap.com to configure subdomains to test and A records to forward to the f1-mcro public IP address. I am not yet ready to completely move the site. I figure that that I would deploy on subdomain and test for a few days to monitor uptime, etc. 
To be continued…. 
